# Notes from internal video chat 15/06/2020

Present: Chris Szczyglowski, Robbie Cook, Robbie Dibble, Alex Payot

Note takers: Chris, Alex

##Summary
The team have spent today investigating different aspects of the problem:
* Alex - Paris Agreement
* Robbie - 
* Chris - UK GHG emissions 

## Alex

* Investigating what the Paris Agreement is
	+ Notes are contained in a separate document
	+ Main points: Paris Goals are different for each country, e.g. absolute reduction in GHG, relative reduction in GHG, market trading, etc.
	+ Question: What GHG should we consider?
	+ Consideration: We want to be specific in what we analyse - we don't have the time to be comprehensive. 
	+ Consideration: It would be best if we could put together an extensible framework that we can show good results for one or two cases and then have the option to expand.

## Robbie

* Investigated the previous repos from NERC Hackathon 1
	+ The competition is not very good. 
* We want to keep our submission as simple as possible in order to maximise impact. Simple message backed up by data is better than a comprehensive report.
* Data is very hard to come by
	+ National statistics are back-dated by 2 years (most recent UK statistics are from 1990-2018)

## Chris

The hackathon goal is distilled to:
* Pos/Neg outcome on Paris Agreement
* What are Net zero targets: 
	+ What aspects of lockdown, what diff, what policy, what circumstance
    + less transport
   	+ Non-obvious outcomes from lockdown?
   	+ traffic data
   	+ Energy usage

## Thoughts going forward

* We want to identify what aspects of lockdown have impacted the emissions of GHG as well as how it has affected the economy.
	+ The desired outcome is to find the silver bullet that minimies GHG emmissions without negatively impacting the GDP.
	+ This could be an obvious or non-obvious effect. For example, it seems that due to lockdown most people will be taking fewer journeys, could we correlate this with GHG emissions and lockdown timings?
* Would be nice to apply the same metrics to two different countries and do a comparison. This means global datasets (e.g. EU Sentinel) should be favoured as the data comes from the same sensor and has no bias.
* **Dependent Quantities**
	+ GHG emissions
	+ GDP
	+ Productivity
	+ Some normalised measure, e.g. GHG per GDP/productivity or productivity per tonne of carbon 
* **Independent Quantities**
	+ GDP dataset
	- Stock markets
	- Sentinel (real-time GHG emissions)
	- Look through IPCC data for historical emissions
* **Sectoral breakdowns**
	+ Energy
    	- Proxy TBD
  	+ Transport (28% of emmissions in 2018)
    	- Google Mobility Data
    	- Traffic data?
  + Agriculture
    + Proxy TBD
* Framework looks like: Location -> Sector / Data Proxy -> Emission -> Paris agreement

## Actions 
* **All** - Add cards/issues to the [Project Board](https://github.com/BristolFluFighters/Covid_Hackathon_2/projects/1)
* **All** - Self-assign one or more cards/issues and find relevant data sets
* **All** - Use Jupyter Notebook or Python to investigate data set and plot statistical/spatial/temporal properties for any interesting metrics

Actions to be complete by next meeting.

## Date of Next Meeting
2100 16/06/2020



